Hello, I'm Adrian Maine and welcome to
the OpenAI podcast. Today we're excited
to be breaking some news involving
Broadcom and OpenAI. Joining me from
OpenAI is Sam Altman and Greg Brockman
and from Broadcom Hock Tan and Charlie
Kawwas.
A lot of ways that you would look at the
AI infrastructure build out right now,
you would say it's the biggest joint
industrial project in human history.
We're defining civilization's
next generation operating system. Like
that is a drop in the bucket compared to
where we need to go. That's a big drop,
right?
So, what are we talking about today?
What brought you all together? So, today
we're announcing a partnership between
Broadcom and OpenAI. We've been working
together for about the last 18 months
designing a new custom chip. More
recently we've also started working on a
whole custom system. These things have
gotten so complex you need the whole
thing. And we will be starting in late
next year deploying 10 gigawatts of
these racks of these systems and our
chip, which is a gigantic amount of
computing infrastructure to serve the
needs of the world to use advanced
intelligence. So, this is going to
entail both compute and chip design and
scaling out? This is uh, this is a full
system. So, we worked, we closely
collaborated for a while on designing a
chip that is specific for our workloads.
When it became clear to us just how much
capacity, inference capacity, the world
was going to need, we began to think
about could we do a chip that was meant
uh, just for that kind of a a very
specific workload. Broadcom is the best
partner in the world for that,
obviously. And then to our great
surprise, this was not the way we
started, um, but as we realized that we
were going to really need the whole
system together to support this as these
as this got more and more complex, it
turns out Broadcom is also incredible at
helping design systems. Um, so we are
working together on that entire package
and this will be uh, this will help us
even further in
uh,
increase the amount of capacity we can
offer for our services. So, Hock, how
did this come about? You know, when did
this start, when did you guys first talk
about working together on this? Well,
other than the fact that Sam and Greg
are great people to work with, it's a
natural fit because OpenAI has been
doing, continues to do the most advanced
models, frontier models in generative AI
out there.
And but as part of it, you need, you
need, you continue to need compute
capacity. The best, latest compute
capacity as you progress in a road map
towards a better and better frontier
model and towards superintelligence. And
compute is key part and that comes with
on semiconductors.
And as Sam indicated, more than
semiconductors. And we are, even though
I say it myself, probably the best
semiconductor company out there. And
more than that is AI is a very, very
exciting opportunity for us in terms of
we we are, my engineers are pushing
the innovation envelope and newer and
newer generations of of semiconductor
technology. So, for us com- uh, com-
collaborating with the best generative
AI company out there is a natural fit.
And this isn't just chips, it's going
out to scale, like 10 gigawatts and I
can't trouble kind of even understanding
that. What does that even mean when
you're talking about 10 gigawatts? First
of all, you said it's not just chips,
Hock touched on this too, but the
vertical integration point is is really
important. We are able to think from
like
etching the transistors all the way up
to the token that comes out when you ask
ChatGPT a question and design the whole
system.
All of the stuff about the chip, the the
way we design these racks, the
networking between them, how the
algorithms that we're using fit the
inference chip itself, a lot of other
stuff, all the way to the end product.
And one of the many reasons I'm so
excited about that is by being able to
optimize across that entire stack, we
can get huge efficiency gains.
Um, and that will lead to much better
performance, faster models, cheaper
models, all of that.
As you get that better performance and
cheaper and smarter models, one thing
that we have consistently seen is people
just want to use way more. So, we used
to think like, oh, we'll optimize things
by 10x and we'll solve all of our
problems, but you optimize by 10x and
there's 20x more demand. Uh, so 10
gigawatts,
kind of incremental gigawatts. This is
all on top of what we're already doing
with other partners and, you know, all
the other data centers and and silicon
partnerships we've done. Um, 10
gigawatts is a gigantic amount of
capacity. And yet, if we do as good of a
job as we hope, um, even though it's
vastly more than the world has today, we
expect that
very high quality intelligence delivered
very fast and at a very low price, the
world will absorb it super fast and just
find incredible new things to use it
for. So, what is the hope with this? The
hope is that
the kinds of things people are doing now
with this compute, um, you know, writing
code, doing more and automating more and
more of enterprises, generating videos
and so or whatever it is, they will be
able to do that uh, much more of it and
with much smarter models. It's amazing.
Uh,
so Greg and Charlie, when you think
about historically when people have
tried to develop, you know, chips or
hardware to suit whatever was the
current modem for using computing at
that point, what examples have you
looked upon historically to figure out
how to plan forward? What's been
inspiring you when you think about this?
Well, I think the number one thing
honestly is working with good partners.
Um, I think it's like very clear that we
as a company
are not able to do everything ourselves
and getting into actually building our
own chips for our own specific workloads
was not something we could do from a
total standstill without working with
Hock and Charlie and Broadcom. So, it's
just been really incredible to lean on
their expertise um, together with our
understanding of the workload. And it's
been actually very interesting to see
the places where OpenAI is able to do
things very differently from the rest of
the industry or the way that things
would historically be done. For example,
we've been able to apply our own models
to designing this chip. Uh, which has
been really cool. We've been able to
pull in the schedule, we've been able to
get massive area reductions. All right,
you take components that humans had
already optimized and uh, just pour
compute into it and the model comes out
with its own optimizations. And it's
very interesting, we're at the point now
where I don't think any of the
optimizations we have are ones that
human designers couldn't have come up
with. Like usually our experts take a
look at it later and say, yeah, like
this was on my list, but it was like 20
things that it would have taken them
another month to get to. Um, and that's
actually really, really interesting that
we were coming up on on a deadline
working with Charlie's team and we were
running optimizations. We had a choice
of, do we actually take a look at what
those optimizations were or do we just
keep going until the deadline and then
take a look after? And we decided, of
course, you got to just keep going. And
so, we've really been building up this
expertise in-house to understand this
domain and that's something we actually
think can help lift up the whole
industry. But I think that we are
heading to a world where
AI intelligence is able to help humanity
make new breakthroughs that just would
not be possible otherwise and we're
going to need just as much compute as
possible to power that. Like one example
of something very concrete is that, you
know, we are in a world now where
ChatGPT is changing from something that
you talk to interactively to something
that can go do work for you behind the
scenes. If you've used features like
pulse, you wake up every morning, it has
some really interesting things that are
related to to what you're interested in.
It's very personalized and our intent is
to turn ChatGPT into something that
helps you achieve your goals. The thing
is, we can only release this to the pro
tier because that's the amount of
compute that we have available. And
ideally everyone would have an agent
that's running for them 24/7 behind the
scenes helping them achieve their goals.
And so, ideally everyone has their own
accelerator, has their own compute power
that's just running constantly. And that
means, you know, there's 10 billion
humans, we are nowhere near being able
to build 10 billion chips. And so,
there's a long way to go before we are
able to saturate just not just the
demand, but what humanity really
deserves. So, Charlie, being very deeply
technical and being with a company
that's been at a number of forefronts
of, you know, some of these revolutions,
what's been like working with a company
like OpenAI and working with Greg on
this? So, for us it's been absolutely
exciting and refreshing because the
beauty of the work we do together is
focus on a certain workload. We started
actually first looking at the IP and AI
accelerator, which is what we call the
XPU.
And then we realized very quickly that
we now can actually go to the workload
all the way down to the transistor. And
as Greg was just explaining how we can
both work together to go customize that
platform for your workload
resulting in the best platform in the
world. Then we realized, as Sam was
saying earlier on, it's not just that
XPU or accelerator. Actually, it's the
networking that needs to go to scale it
up, scale it out and scale it across.
And so, suddenly we started seeing that
we actually can drive next level of
standardization and openness that not
just only benefits us, I think it
actually will benefit the entire
ecosystem and it gets gen AI to an AGI
much faster. So, very excited about the
technical capabilities of the teams we
have, but also the vision and I think
the speed at which we've been moving.
The I'm still kind of wrapping my head
around the scale of it because it's just
from both trying to design something
like a chip into help, you know, figure
out how you're going to get the maximum
efficiency on this to just the size of
it, the infrastructure, what's involved.
And this is a global effort. And what
comparisons you've been able to draw for
this to other examples in history? I I
always think the historical
analogies are tough, but this is
as
as far as I know, I I don't like know
what fraction, you know, building the
Great Wall was of global GDP at the
time, but
a lot of ways that you would look at the
AI infrastructure build out right now,
you would say it's the biggest joint
industrial project in human history.
And this is like
this requires a lot of companies, a lot
of countries, a lot of industries to
come together and a lot of stuff has to
happen at the same time and we've all
got to kind of like invest together, but
at this point, given everything we see
coming
on
the research front,
given all of the value we see being
created on the business front,
I think the whole industry has decided
this is like a a very good bet to take,
but it is huge. You go to one of these
even 1 gigawatt data centers
and you look at the scale of what's
happening there. It's like a, you know,
tiny city. Like it's this is
it's a big complex thing.
So, uh
it is just like incredible scale. To to
the point of this being a massive
collaborative project, I feel like
whenever I call Charlie, he's in a
different part of the world trying to
secure capacity, trying to find a way to
help us build what we're trying to do
together. Exactly. Actually, one of the
coolest thing actually was thinking
about is what we're doing together in
this wonderful partnership. We're
defining civilization's
next generation operating system and
we're doing it, as you're saying, at the
transistor level.
Building new fabs, building new
manufacturing sites, all the way to
building these racks and ultimately the
data centers you're talking about. 10
gigawatts and data centers. Yeah, I
think that's an important thing to keep
track of is often people get fixated
just on the chips themselves and it's
kind of like thinking the national
highway project was about selling
asphalt or railroads are about steel. In
reality, it's the things become possible
on top of that. And you've probably
thought a lot about that, like what
happens when Well, I think this is like
railroad,
internet.
That's one I think this is becoming over
time critical infrastructure or critical
utility.
And more than just critical utility
before say
10,000 enterprises. This is critical
utility over time
for 8 billion people globally. That's I
think the big it's like the industrial
revolution of a different sort coming
forth, but it doesn't it cannot be done
with just one
party or we like to think it can be done
with two, but more than it needs
a lot of partnerships. It needs in
collaboration
across an ecosystem.
And also because of that, it's important
to create much as we say about
developing chips for specific workloads,
applications and LLM,
it also requires somewhat standards that
are open, more transparent for all to
use because you need to build up a whole
infrastructure at the end of the day as
to become a critical utility for 6
billion people in the world. And we're
very excited, frankly, which is why we
think we make great partners. Because I
think we share the same conviction
and
more than that, it is about scaling
computing to create breakthroughs in
super intelligence and models. It's
building the foundation of that.
You guys have a lot on your plate.
Why design chips now?
Well,
you know, this project we've probably
been working on it for 18 months now and
it's moved incredibly quickly. Um we've
hired some really amazing people
and that I think what we found is that
we have a deep understanding of the
workload and we work with number of
parties across the ecosystem and there's
a number of chips out there that I think
are are really incredible
and that there's a niche for for each
one. And so we've really been looking
for like for specific workloads that we
feel are underserved, how can we build
something that will be able to
accelerate what's possible? And so I
think that
that that ability
that we are able to do the full vertical
integration for something we see coming,
but it's hard for us to work through
other partners. Like that's a very clear
use case for this kind of project. Yeah,
actually more than that and Greg, you
put it very well. Really, why you want
to do your your chip is computing
is a big part of what's gaining this
journey towards
super intelligence, towards creating
better and better frontier model. It's
really a lot of it down to computing and
not just any computing, computing that
is
effective, high performance and
efficient
given especially on power. And what Greg
is saying is exactly what we learned and
saw here. For instance, if you want to
train,
you you design chips that are that are
much stronger in capacity in computing
capacity measured TFLOPS as well as
network because it's not just one chip
that makes it happen. It's a cluster,
actually put it. But if you want to do
inference,
you put in more memory and memory access
relative to compute. So you are actually
over time creating chips optimized for
particular
workloads, uh applications as we go as
we go along. And that at the end of day
is what will create the most effective
um models is a platform that you want to
create end to end. And also one
piece of historical context is that when
we started OpenAI, we didn't really have
that much of a focus on compute. We felt
that the path to AGI is really about
ideas. It's really about tryouts and
stuff. Eventually we'll put the right
conceptual pieces in place and then AGI.
And about 2 years in in 2017,
the thing that we found was that we were
getting the best results out of scale.
It wasn't something we set out to prove.
It was something we really discovered
empirically because of everything else
that didn't work nearly as well. And you
know, the first results were scaling up
our reinforcement learning in the
context of the video game Dota 2.
Did you guys pay attention to the Dota 2
project back in the day? Yes. It's a
super cool project and we really saw you
scale up by 2x and suddenly your agent
is 2x better. It's like, okay, we have
to push this to the limit. And at that
point we started paying attention to the
whole ecosystem, right? There were all
sorts of chip startups with novel
approaches that were very different from
GPUs and we started giving them a ton of
feedback saying, here's where we think
things are going. It needs to be models
of this shape. And honestly, a lot of
them just didn't listen to us, right?
And so it's like very frustrating to be
in this position where you say, we see
the direction the future should be
going, but we have no ability to really
influence it besides sort of, you know,
just like sort of trying to to influence
other people's road maps. And so by
being able to take some of this in
house, we feel like we are able to
actually realize that vision. And again,
in a way that like we hope that we can
show a direction and other people will
fill in because the amount of compute
required to bring
our vision of AGI to the world, 10
gigawatts is not enough. Like that is
what a drop in the bucket compared to
where we need to go. That's a big drop,
but
but the bucket's really big.
Uh what
becomes possible with this when you're
building your own chips for inference
and for training? You know, where can
you take this? To zoom out a little bit,
if you if you
simplify what we do in this whole
process to
you know, melt sand, run energy through
it and get intelligence out the other
end. You're not literally melting sand,
but
I guess it's a nice visual.
The
what we want is
the most intelligence we can get out of
each unit of energy.
And
cuz that will become the gate at some
point.
And
and I hope what this whole process will
show us, which is, you know, from the
model we design to
the chip to the rack,
we will be able to ring out so much more
intelligence per watt.
And then everybody that's using these
models in all of these incredible ways
will do so much with it.
Um
that's what I hope for.
And you control your own destiny.
If you do your own chips,
you control your destiny.
Yeah, it's it's an interesting thing to
think about how the things that we're
doing today are pretty amazing
remarkable, but we're using stuff that
wasn't actually designed specifically
for the way we're doing it. Oh, I I
mean, the GPUs of today are incredible,
incredible things. Uh
I'm
very grateful and we will continue to
really need a lot of those. The the
flexibility and the ability to let us do
fast research is amazing, but you are
right that the the
as we get more and more confident in
what the shape of the future is going to
look like, a very optimized system to
the workload will let us ring more out
per watt. That's great. And it's a long
journey that takes decades. So if if you
go back to Hawk's example, take
railroads, it took about a century to
roll it out as a critical
infrastructure. If you take the
internet, it took about 30 years.
This is not going to take 5 years. It's
going to take a long time. So I think as
we collectively, especially with this
partnership, continue to figure out ways
to ring out more tokens out of it, we'll
discover that oh, for this training or
research, maybe a GPU is great or maybe,
you know what? We can take whatever
we're doing with Greg,
it's actually a platform that allows
you, like a LEGO block, to take in
things in and and out and now suddenly
we can get another XPU or an accelerator
for next gen that's targeted at a
training or an inference or a research.
Yeah, and to to the point that Sam said
of GPUs have really come an incredible
way. In 2017 when we started looking at
all these other accelerators, it was
actually very non-obvious about what the
landscape would look like in 5, 10
years. And I think it's really a
testament to the you know to to the
companies like Nvidia and AMD
for how much the GPU has just moved
forward and continued to be the dominant
accelerator.
But at the same time there's a massive
design space out there. Right? And I
think that what we see is workloads that
are not served through existing
platforms and that's where that full
vertical integration is something
unique.
It's interesting too because the idea
that you'd want to put inferences close
to the user is something kind of
relatively new. You know, we understood
training but then you think about like
the number of people every day using
these products and how much they need
compute to do fun things or serious
things. And when you start thinking
about kind of like the scale of it like
we talked before I keep coming back to
it's a very big thing. Um
where you know, where does it keep
going? Does it just a thing that we're
going to continuously find new things to
use compute for?
The first cluster OpenAI had uh
the first one that I can remember the
energy size for was 2 MW.
Um Adorable. Yeah.
We got things done with those two.
>> I don't remember when we got to 20. I
remember when we got to 200. Uh
you know
and
we we'll finish this year a little bit
over 2 GW and these recent partnerships
will take us
close to 30. Um
and
the world has done far more than I
thought they were going to do. Turns out
you can like serve you know 10% of the
world's population with ChatGPT on
Andrew the research Andrew Sora Andrew
API and a few other things on 2 GW
but think about how much more the world
would like to do than they get to do
right now. If we had the 30 GW today
with today's quality of models
I think you would still saturate that
relatively quickly in terms of what
people would do especially with the
lower cost we'll be able to do with
this. But the thing we have learned
again and again is
let's say we can push GPT-6 to feel like
you know, 30 IQ points past GPT-5
something something big.
The and that it can work on problems not
for a few hours but for a few days weeks
months whatever. The amount and while we
do that we bring the cost per token
down. The amount of economic value and
sort of surplus demand that happens each
time we've been able to do that
goes up a crazy amount. So you can see
to pick up I think well-known example at
this point when
ChatGPT could write a little bit of code
people actually used it for that. They
would like very painfully paste in their
code and wait and they would say do this
for me and paste it back in and whatever
and models you know couldn't do much but
they could do a few things. The models
got better the UI the UX got better now
we have Codex. Codex is growing
unbelievably fast and can now do like a
few hours of work
at a higher level of kind of capability
and when that's possible the the demand
increase is crazy.
Maybe the next version of Codex can do
like a few days of work at kind of one
of the best engineer you know level or
maybe that takes a few more versions
whatever it'll get there. Think how much
demand there will just be for that and
then do it for every knowledge work
industry.
And one way I like to think of it is
that intelligence is the fundamental
driver
of economic growth of increasing the
standard of living for everyone. And
what we're doing with AI is actually
bringing more intelligence and
amplifying the intelligence of everyone.
And so as these models get better I
think everyone's going to become more
productive. The output of what is
possible is going to just be totally
different from what what exists today.
It's interesting too that going from a
point when with GPT-3 which was pretty
cost you know it was expensive
comparatively to where you're at you
know level of the GPT-5 and the fact
that you can provide that freely to
people. And is that a motivating factor
for you the fact that every time you
create these new efficiencies that it
just benefits so many more people? Yes.
Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah.
Absolutely. And
and from our side on hardware compute
capacity where the way to such a to some
extent the rubber hits the road on this
it's really incumbent on us
to keep optimizing pushing the
the envelope on leading edge technology.
And there's still room to go.
And there's room to go even on where we
are as we go from 2 nm
going going forward
as small as 2 nm
as we start doing all kinds of different
technology. It is really great and
exciting times especially for the
hardware and the semiconductor industry.
>> What Broadcom has done here is really
like quite incredible. Um
it
used to be extremely difficult for a
company like ours to think about making
a competitive chip. In fact so hard we
just wouldn't have done it. And I think
a lot of other companies wouldn't have
done it as well. And all of these sort
of this customized chip and system tool
workload just wouldn't be a thing in the
world. But the fact that they have
pushed so hard and so well on
making it so that they can a company can
partner with them and they can do
a miracle of technology chip quickly and
at scale. Unfortunately they do it for
all of our competitors too but
hopefully our chip will be the best. Yes
of course. Thank you. Uh it's really
quite incredible. Yeah. And I think also
not just what they can do for us today
but looking at the upcoming road map
it's just so exciting the kinds of
technologies that they're going to be
able to bring to bear for us to be able
to utilize. Well it's just the
excitement of I mean enabling joint
collaboratively
models ChatGPT-5 6 7
on and on and each of them will require
a different chip a better chip a more
ex
a more developed chip advanced chip that
we haven't even begun to figure out how
to get there. But we will. And actually
the GPTs are definitely going to be
increasing part of that. It will be very
interesting. We're actually looking
forward to that because my software
engineers now already use that from a
software point of view and it's
delivering efficiencies of dozens of
engineers. Really? Yes.
>> Great.
>> On the hardware side we're not there yet
but but you know the good news
>> We'll get there I'm sure. Yeah we should
we should talk. Yes. We should
absolutely leverage this but I was going
to say with respect to compute so when
we started building these XPUs you can
maximum build a certain number of
compute in 800 square millimeter. That's
it. Now today we're actually working
together to ship multiple of these in a
two-dimensional space. The next thing
we're talking about is stacking these
into the same chip. So now we're
actually going in the you know, Y
dimension or Z dimension if you want to
think three-dimensional. And then the
the last step we're actually also
talking about is now we're going to
bring optics into this which is actually
what we just announced which is 100
terabits of switching
with optics integrated all into the same
chip. So these are sort of the
technologies that will take compute the
size of the cluster the total
performance and wattage of the cluster
to a whole new level that I think it
will keep doubling at least every 6 to
12 months. What kind of time frame are
we talking about? When are we going to
first start to see what's coming out of
this relationship?
>> End of end of next year and then we'll
deploy very rapidly over the next three
years. Absolutely.
>> Yeah. Greg and I are talking about this
at least once a week.
>> Wow. We just had a chat earlier today on
this.
>> Yes. Good good progress today.
>> Yes. Exactly. But yeah we're we're
really excited to get silicon back.
Starting soon actually.
>> Yes. Very soon. Yeah I think that like
my my view of this whole project is it's
not easy right? It's easy to just say oh
yeah 10 but like when you look at what
is required to actually design a whole
new chip and to actually deliver this at
scale get the whole thing working end to
end
it's just an astronomical amount of
work. And I would say that we're very
serious you know our mission is to
ensure that AGI benefits all of
humanity. We're very serious about
benefits everyone. Like we really want
this to be a technology that is
accessible to the whole world that lifts
up everyone and you can really see that
in trying to make the world be one of
computer abundance because I think by
default we're heading to towards one
that is like quite compute scarce.
Yeah ask my wife when she's trying to
get more Sora credits. It feels very
scarce. No no we we feel it so
concretely. Like teams within OpenAI
that their output is so is just like a
direct function of how much compute they
get. And so that the amount of sort of
the amount of intensity on the like who
gets the compute allocation is so
extreme. And so I think that like what
we really want is to be a world where
just if you have an idea you want to
create you want to go build something
that you have the compute power behind
you to make it happen.
Uh gentlemen thank you very much for
sharing this with us. It's going to be
very exciting to see where this goes and
I hope we can keep talking about this as
it continues to develop. Thank you.
Thank you guys for the partnership.
Yeah. Thank you for the partnership.
We're really enjoying it. We are too.
Yeah. Thank you.